<h3>What is the difference between push, pull, and fetch?</h3>
<ul>
<li><code>git push</code> - uploads the data from your local repository and saves it to the remote repository</li>
<li><code>git fetch</code> - downloads the remote repository and saves a local copy of the repository. However, if you already have a local copy of this repository, this command will not overwrite the existing local copy./li>
<li><code>git pull</code> - downloads the remote repository and saves a local copy of the repository. Additionally, if there is already a local copy of the repository, this command will update the existing local copy to synchronize with the remote repository/li>
</ul>

<p>These three git commands (push, pull, and fetch) synchronize a remote repository with your local repository or with a tracking branch. However, each of these commands has a specific purpose and specific behaviors. The <code>git push</code> command checks if there is a tracking branch for the remote repository that is connected to your local repository. If so, the changes from your local repository are saved to the remote repository. This process will fail if the remote repository has diverged from the local repository because the local repository needs to be synchronized with the remote repository. To do this, use the command <code>git pull</code> or the commands <code>git fetch</code> and then, <code>git merge</code>. Often <code>git pull</code> and <code>git fetch</code> are described as equivalent: this is incorrect. <code> git pull</code> does two things: it downloads the remote repository and it overwrites the changes on your local repository. While <code>git fetch</code> looks for changes in the remote repository and pulls these changes into the tracking branch. But, it does not change your local repository. To do that, the command <code>git merge</code> is required.</p>

<p>Essentially, <code>git pull</code> consists of a <code>git fetch</code> and a <code>git merge</code> combined into one command. This makes <code>git pull</code> powerful; and at times, dangerous. For example, if you use <code>git pull</code>, the changes that you have saved to your local repository could be accidentally overwritten when synchronizing your local repository with the remote repository. Based on this, some individuals prefer to use <code>git fetch</code> followed by <code>git merge</code> because your local repository is not automatically overwritten, instead you are able to read through the changes in the tracking branch before you merge changes with your local repository.</p>
